MICROCHIP IS WILLING TO LICENSE THE ACCOMPANYING SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION TO
YOU ONLY ON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE FOLLOWING TERMS. TO ACCEPT
THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, CLICK "I ACCEPT" AND PROCEED WITH THE DOWNLOAD OR
INSTALL. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE LICENSE TERMS, CLICK "I DO NOT ACCEPT," AND
DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR INSTALL THIS SOFTWARE.

NON-EXCLUSIVE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR MPLAB(r) IDE SOFTWARE

This Nonexclusive Software License Agreement ("Agreement") is a contract between
you, your heirs, successors and assigns ("Licensee") and Microchip Technology
Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with a principal place of business at 2355
W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224-6199, and its subsidiary, Microchip
Technology (Barbados) II Incorporated (collectively, "Microchip") for the
accompanying Microchip software including, but not limited to, MPLAB IDE
software, and any updates thereto (collectively, the "Software"), and
accompanying documentation, including images and any other graphic resources
provided by Microchip ("Documentation").

1. Definitions.  As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms will
have the meanings defined below:
    a. "Microchip Products" means Microchip microcontrollers, Microchip digital
signal controllers, or other Microchip products.
    b. "Object Code" means the Software computer programming code that is in
Press [Enter] to continue:binary form (including related documentation, if any), and error corrections,
improvements, modifications, and updates.
    c. "Source Code" means the Software computer programming code that may be
printed out or displayed in human readable form (including related programmer
comments and documentation, if any), and error corrections, improvements,
modifications, and updates.

2. Software License Grant.  Subject to Licensee's compliance with the terms of
this Agreement, Microchip grants strictly to Licensee a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, worldwide license to:
    a. Use the Software solely for use with Microchip Products; and
    b. If Source Code is provided, modify the Software, provided that no Open
Source Components (defined in Section 4 below) are incorporated into such
Software in such a way that would affect Microchip's right to distribute the
Software with the limitations set forth herein.

3. Documentation License Grant.  Microchip grants strictly to Licensee a
non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to use the Documentation in
support of Licensee's authorized use of the Software.

4. Open Source Components.  Notwithstanding the license grant in Section 2
above, Licensee further acknowledges that certain components of the Software may
be covered by so-called "open source" software licenses ("Open Source
Press [Enter] to continue:Components"). Open Source Components means any software licenses approved as
open source licenses by the Open Source Initiative or any substantially similar
licenses, including without limitation any license that, as a condition of
distribution of the software licensed under such license, requires that the
distributor make the software available in source code format. To the extent
required by the licenses covering Open Source Components, the terms of such
license will apply in lieu of the terms of this Agreement. To the extent the
terms of the licenses applicable to Open Source Components prohibit any of the
restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Open Source Components, such
restrictions will not apply to such Open Source Component.

By way of example, Netbeans 6.9 distributed with the Software is licensed under
the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"). Licenses
applicable to Netbeans can be found in the NETBEANSLICENSES.txt and
THIRDPARTYLICENSE.txt files or at
http://netbeans.org/about/legal/product-licences.html.

5. Third Party Requirements.  Licensee acknowledges that it is Licensee's
responsibility to comply with any third party license terms or requirements
applicable to the use of such third party software, specifications, systems, or
tools. Microchip is not responsible and will not be held responsible in any
manner for Licensee's failure to comply with such applicable terms or
requirements.
Press [Enter] to continue:
6. Licensee Obligations.  Licensee will not: (a) engage in unauthorized use,
modification, disclosure or distribution of Software or Documentation, or its
derivatives; (b) use all or any portion of the Software, Documentation, or its
derivatives except in conjunction with Microchip Products; or (c) reverse
engineer (by disassembly, decompilation or otherwise) Software or any portion
thereof. Licensee may not remove or alter any Microchip copyright or other
proprietary rights notice posted in any portion of the Software or
Documentation. Licensee will defend, indemnify and hold Microchip and its
subsidiaries harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages,
expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees), liabilities, and losses,
including without limitation product liability claims, directly or indirectly
arising from or related to the: (i) use, sale and distribution of Licensee
products; and (ii) breach of this Agreement. THIS SECTION 6 STATES THE SOLE AND
EXCLUSIVE LIABILITY OF THE PARTIES FOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT.

7. Confidentiality.  Licensee agrees that the Software (including but not
limited to the Source Code, Object Code and library files) and its derivatives,
underlying inventions, algorithms, know-how and ideas relating to the Software,
and the Documentation are proprietary information belonging to Microchip and its
licensors ("Proprietary Information"). Except as expressly and unambiguously
allowed herein, Licensee will hold in confidence and not use or disclose any
Proprietary Information and will similarly bind its employees in writing.
Press [Enter] to continue:Proprietary Information will not include information that: (a) is in or enters
the public domain without breach of this Agreement and through no fault of the
receiving party; (b) the receiving party was legally in possession of prior to
receiving it; (c) the receiving party can demonstrate was developed by the
receiving party independently and without use of or reference to the disclosing
party's Proprietary Information; or (d) the receiving party receives from a
third party without restriction on disclosure. If Licensee is required to
disclose Proprietary Information by law, court order, or government agency,
License will give Microchip prompt notice of such requirement in order to allow
Microchip to object or limit such disclosure. Licensee agrees that the
provisions of this Agreement regarding unauthorized use and nondisclosure of the
Software, Documentation and related Proprietary Rights are necessary to protect
the legitimate business interests of Microchip and its licensors and that
monetary damage alone cannot adequately compensate Microchip or its licensors if
such provisions are violated. Licensee, therefore, agrees that if Microchip
alleges that Licensee has breached or violated such provision then Microchip
will have the right to injunctive relief, without the requirement for the
posting of a bond, in addition to all other remedies at law or in equity.

8. Benchmarking.  This Agreement does not prevent Licensee from using the
Software for internal benchmarking purposes. However, Licensee will treat any
and all benchmarking data relating to the Software, and any of other results of
use or testing of the Software that are indicative of its performance, efficacy,
Press [Enter] to continue:reliability or quality, as confidential information. Licensee will not disclose
such information to any third party without the Company's express written
permission. The foregoing restriction applies to benchmarking data that relates
to the Software as a whole or any portion thereof and such restriction is a
condition to exercising the licenses granted to Licensee (but will not be deemed
a condition to the use of any Open Source Components, to the extent such
restriction would be prohibited by the license applicable to such Open Source
Components).

9. Ownership of Proprietary Rights.  Microchip and its licensors retain all
right, title and interest in and to the Software and Documentation including,
but not limited to all patent, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual
property rights in the Software, Documentation, and underlying technology and
all copies and derivative works thereof (by whomever produced). Licensee's use
of such modifications and derivatives is limited to the license rights described
in this Agreement, except as set forth in Section 4.

10. Termination of Agreement.  Without prejudice to any other rights, this
Agreement terminates immediately, without notice by Microchip, upon a failure by
Licensee to comply with any provision of this Agreement. Upon termination,
Licensee will immediately stop using the Software, Documentation, and
derivatives thereof, and immediately destroy all such copies.

Press [Enter] to continue:11. Warranty Disclaimers.  THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION ARE PROVIDED "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. MICROCHIP AND ITS LICENSORS ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE ACCURACY, RELIABILITY OR APPLICATION OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.
MICROCHIP AND ITS LICENSORS DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET
REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE, BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. MICROCHIP AND ITS
LICENSORS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO CORRECT ANY DEFECTS IN THE SOFTWARE.

12. Limited Liability.  IN NO EVENT WILL MICROCHIP OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE OR
OBLIGATED UNDER ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT DAMAGES
OR EXPENSES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOST PROFITS OR LOST DATA, COST OF PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS, TECHNOLOGY, SERVICES, OR ANY CLAIMS BY THIRD PARTIES
(INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY DEFENSE THEREOF), OR OTHER SIMILAR COSTS. The
aggregate and cumulative liability of Microchip and its licensors for damages
hereunder will in no event exceed $1000 or the amount Licensee paid Microchip
for the Software and Documentation, whichever is greater. Licensee acknowledges
that the foregoing limitations are reasonable and an essential part of this
Agreement.

13. General.  THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED UNDER THE LAWS OF
THE STATE OF ARIZONA AND THE UNITED STATES WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS
Press [Enter] to continue:PROVISIONS. Licensee agrees that any disputes arising out of or related to this
Agreement, Software or Documentation will be brought in the courts of the State
of Arizona. This Agreement will constitute the entire agreement between the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. It will not be modified
except by a written agreement signed by an authorized representative of the
Microchip. If any provision of this Agreement will be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, that provision
will be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this
Agreement will otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. No
waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement will constitute a waiver
of any prior, concurrent or subsequent breach of the same or any other
provisions hereof, and no waiver will be effective unless made in writing and
signed by an authorized representative of the waiving party. Licensee agrees to
comply with all export laws and restrictions and regulations of the Department
of Commerce or other United States or foreign agency or authority. The
indemnities, obligations of confidentiality, and limitations on liability
described herein, and any right of action for breach of this Agreement prior to
termination, will survive any termination of this Agreement. Any prohibited
assignment will be null and void. Use, duplication or disclosure by the United
States Government is subject to restrictions set forth in subparagraphs (a)
through (d) of the Commercial Computer-Restricted Rights clause of FAR 52.227-19
when applicable, or in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data
and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, and in similar clauses in
Press [Enter] to continue:the NASA FAR Supplement. Contractor/manufacturer is Microchip Technology Inc.,
2355 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224-6199. If Licensee has any questions
about this Agreement, please write to Microchip Technology Inc., 2355 W.
Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224-6199 USA. ATTN: Marketing.

Copyright (c) 2012 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
License Rev. No. 022412
